Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to go over the solutions for data visualization exercise questions.
Let's get started.
Okay here we are at the exercise notebook.
Let's go ahead and work through solutions.
First thing I need to do is just run these first few cells to actually read in the data file and check
it out.
So now that I have the data file what I'm going to do is first create a scatter plot of the price versus
carrot as shown below.
Lots of different ways you can do this by the simplest ways to U.S. born and what we're going to do
here is say as soon as that scatter plot and then pass in the columns care on the x axis and then Y
as price and then we happen to call our data frame diamonds.
So we'll go ahead and do that run it and you should see the same results here.
Keep in mind you need to add peeled teeth that show in case you're not running this inside a notebook.
So as we mentioned there's a bit of a problem here with this marker edge being too thick and there's
so many points on top of each other.
It's a little bit hard to tell the density of the points.
So what we're gonna do is we'll take the same code we just copy and paste it and then we're going to
add in some parameter calls.
So the first one is Alpha which is essentially transparency.
If we say Alpha is equal to 1 that's totally opaque.
If we say Alpha is equal to zero then that's completely transparent.
Recall that we have almost fifty six thousand points here.
So we're gonna go quite transparent here about 10 percent or zero point one and then the edge color
parameter which you can either kind of Google search or it's actually mentioned here.
Edge color parameter we're going to set that equal to none.
And then when you run this it gets rid of that edge and also adds in the alpha so we can see point stacked
on top of each other in a clear fashion.
So you'll notice that singular points are very transparent.
And if we stack a bunch of them on top of each other we can see there's a density of points here next.
We wanted to make the previous plot larger.
So for this one you may have to have add Google searched a little bit or check out our reference notebooks
birds going to copy and paste our first block command and then right above it we can say peel t that
figure and then call fig size is equal to whatever you want.
So to make a larger I went ahead and said twelve by eight.
And then we get a much larger figure as our output which also helps again with the density of the plot
points moving along.
I wanted to create a histogram of the price column so to do that I went ahead and used C Bourne's distribution
plot and then we only pass in since it's a histogram just one column.
So in this case it's price and also I'll say Katie is equal to False.
So if you run this by default you get a smaller histogram.
You'll notice minds a lot larger.
So one way to fix that is just by at the top here St. Paul figure fig size is equal to twelve by eight.
And if you ran that you pretty much got it but you also notice that in the actual output here we're
a lot closer to zero.
We don't actually have any negative prices in our dataset so it doesn't quite make sense for our x axis
to show some sort of access to that negative range.
Well we'll go ahead and do then is after this.
We can set some x limits by saying Pulte X Lim go ahead and start at zero and then maybe go up to something
like 18000 as our max.
And then we get this plot here.
That's again optional to play around with but it kind of makes sense for histogram that only has positive
values.
They just started at x equals zero moving along wanted to create a count plot of the instances per cut
type as shown below.
This should have been pretty straightforward.
We just call s an account plot.
So we want it on the column and then after that we just say our data frame is the diamonds data frame
and then we get this result.
Similarly for the box plot what we can do is just say S.A. drop box plot and noticed that the y axis
is price and the x axis is cut.
So we'll go ahead and define those as well.
By saying X is equal to the string cut Y is equal to the string price and data is diamonds so we run
that.
We get this kind of smaller box plot so again we'll make it larger by calling Pulte figure beforehand
and then setting fig size equal to something larger maybe told by 8.
And now we get this nice box plot for the challenge here.
We want to see if you can figure out how to actually change the ordering of the box plot.
So it's a common question I get from students and I wanted you to try to discover this on your own.
And the best way to do that is by actually checking the online documentation for Seabourn.
So if you actually Google searched Seabourn box plot went ahead and check that out and open up Seabourn
box plot.
You'll notice that there actually is an order parameter which is the order to plot the categorical levels
so you can see different examples here.
But the main thing is to actually find this order parameter and then realize that it's a list of strings.
So we'll come back here and see if we can figure that out so we'll go ahead and say diamonds and let's
just get the actual values that are available to us under cut and we can do this by using a little bit
of panels by calling unique here and now we get this list.
So I'm going to just copy that list element of it could also be an umpire.
And then say cut.
Order is equal to that list.
Now keep in mind that's the default ordering ideal premium.
Good cut very good and fair.
What I want to do is make sure my ordering kind of goes fair.
Ideal.
Good cut very good premium so I'll go ahead and make that happen.
So we'll take fair string cut it out put it here and then we'll go to ideal which is next and then premium
we'll go ahead and cut that out.
Put it at the very end.
And now here we have our order.
Okay so keep in mind see more and kind of just automatically puts this in the best order it thinks possible.
Essentially what's most efficient in the background but you can always specify the order yourself along
the x axis by passing in the string like that and a good way to quickly get that string is by calling
unique on whatever column you're working with.
So just a couple tips there.
Next we'll go ahead and say S.A. box plot.
Same as before X is cut.
Then why is price data is diamonds.
And now order is going to be equal to this cut order list that we just made and if we want we can also
play around the palette and I went ahead and just choose cools my color string you run that and then
you get back this.
So that's exactly what we wanted and keep in mind if you want to make it bigger you can just say Pulte
that figure fig size is equal to let's say twelve by eight and we get back the same results.
Okay.
If you have any questions make sure to check out our solutions notebook.
Coming up next we'll begin learning about tensor flow and artificial neural networks.
I'll see you there.